feat: Adding ckERC20 pages and chain-key token requirements (#3107)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/ckerc20/overview.mdx

> ---

Reviewer: I would suggest adding some examples of current ckERC20 tokens, such as ckUSDC and ckLINK. We've had several users ask about the ckUSDC docs, so we should reference at least ckUSDC somewhere in this overview so we have something to point them to.

Author: Good point. I'll add a short paragraph.

keywords: [advanced, ethereum, cketh, erc20, ckerc20, chain-key ethereum, overview]
---

import useBaseUrl from "@docusaurus/useBaseUrl";
import { MarkdownChipRow } from "/src/components/Chip/MarkdownChipRow";

# ckERC20 overview

<MarkdownChipRow labels={["Advanced", "Ethereum" ]} />

## What is ckERC20?

Chain-key ERC-20 (ckERC20) tokens are
[ICRC-2](https://github.com/dfinity/ICRC-1/blob/main/standards/ICRC-2/README.md)-compliant tokens that are backed 1:1 by the corresponding [ERC-20](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/)-compliant token on Ethereum.

> Just like other chain-key tokens, such as [ckBTC](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/ckbtc/overview) and [ckETH](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/cketh/overview), the ckERC20 tokens do not rely on any centralized bridge to facilitate the conversion between the ckERC20 token and the ERC-20 tokenETH and ckETH, which makes the conversion substantially more secure compared to other traditional 'wrapped' tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like other chain-key tokens, such as [ckBTC](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/ckbtc/overview) and [ckETH](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/cketh/overview), the ckERC20 tokens do not rely on any centralized bridge to facilitate the conversion between the ckERC20 token and the ERC-20 token, which makes the conversion substantially more secure compared to other traditional 'wrapped' tokens.
```

> Moreover, like ckETH, ckERC20 tokens offer the same advantages over their counterparts on Ethereum, which are faster and cheaper transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ckERC20 tokens offer the same advantages over their counterparts on Ethereum, including faster and cheaper transactions.
```

> A ckERC20 token can be created for any ERC-20 token. The process of adding a ckERC20 token involves an NNS proposal as described [here](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/blob/master/rs/ethereum/ledger-suite-orchestrator/README.adoc#add-new-ckerc20).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ckERC20 token can be created for any ERC-20 token. The process of adding a ckERC20 token involves creating an [NNS proposal](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/blob/master/rs/ethereum/ledger-suite-orchestrator/README.adoc#add-new-ckerc20).
```

The ckETH minter is responsible for handling ERC-20 deposits and withdrawal requests.
The ckETH minter handles these tasks because ERC-20 transfers require an Ethereum transaction with a fee in ETH.

The ledger suite orchestrator is responsible for a set of _ICRC ledger suites_, one ledger suite per ckERC20 token. Each ledger suite consists of a ledger, an index, and possibly one or more archive canisters.
The ledger suite orchestrator makes it possible to handle all ckERC20 tokens in a scalable manner.
Specifically, it can perform the following actions:

- Spawn a new ICRC ledger suite when adding a new ckERC20 token via an NNS proposal.

- Upgrade all managed ledger suites via an NNS proposal.

- Top up the canisters of all managed ledger suites with cycles.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Converting ERC-20 tokens to ckERC20 tokens
```

In order to convert ERC-20 tokens to the corresponding ckERC20 tokens, the following steps are carried out:

> 1. The user submits an Ethereum transaction calling the `approve` function of the ERC-20 smart contract to allow the helper smart contract to withdraw some the user's funds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The user submits an Ethereum transaction calling the `approve` function of the ERC-20 smart contract to allow the helper smart contract to withdraw some of the user's funds.
```

2. The user calls the `deposit` function of the helper smart contract, specifying the ERC-20 contract, how many ERC-20 tokens should be withdrawn from the user's account, and the principal ID that should be credited for the minted ckERC20 tokens. The helper smart contract transfers the specified number of ERC-20 tokens to itself and, if successful, emits an `event` to be consumed by the ckETH minter.

3. The ckETH minter periodically fetches the logs from the helper smart contract, minting ckERC20 tokens for every newly discovered `event`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Converting ckERC20 tokens to ERC-20 tokens
```

A user can convert ckERC20 tokens to ERC-20 tokens by following these steps:

1. The user calls the `icrc2_approve` function on the ckETH ledger to approve the ckETH minter to burn some of the user's ckETH tokens as payment for the transaction fees.

> 2. The user calls the `icrc2_approve` function on the ledger of the given ckERC20 token to approve the minter to burn some of the user' ckERC20 tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The user calls the `icrc2_approve` function on the ledger of the given ckERC20 token to approve the minter to burn some of the user's ckERC20 tokens.
```

> 3. The user calls the `withdraw_erc20` function on the ckETH minter, specifying the canister ID of the ledger of the given ckERC20 token, the amount to be withdrawn, and the Ethereum destination address. The ckETH minter then issues transactions to burn the fee in ckETH and the specififed amount of the ckERC20 token. If both operations succeed, it sends an Ethereum transaction that transfers the specified amount from the helper smart contract to the destination address that the user provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The user calls the `withdraw_erc20` function on the ckETH minter, specifying the canister ID of the ledger for the given ckERC20 token, the amount to be withdrawn, and the Ethereum destination address. The ckETH minter then issues transactions to burn the fee in ckETH and the specified amount of the ckERC20 token. If both operations succeed, it sends an Ethereum transaction that transfers the specified amount from the helper smart contract to the destination address that the user provided.
```

Just like other chain-key tokens, such as [ckBTC](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/ckbtc/overview) and [ckETH](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/cketh/overview), the ckERC20 tokens do not rely on any centralized bridge to facilitate the conversion between the ckERC20 token and the ERC-20 token, which makes the conversion substantially more secure compared to other traditional 'wrapped' tokens.

Moreover, like ckETH, ckERC20 tokens offer the same advantages over their counterparts on Ethereum, which are faster and cheaper transactions.

A ckERC20 token can be created for any ERC-20 token. The process of adding a ckERC20 token involves an NNS proposal as described [here](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/blob/master/rs/ethereum/ledger-suite-orchestrator/README.adoc#add-new-ckerc20).

:::info

Note that the [same requirements](/docs/current/developer-docs/multi-chain/chain-key-tokens/overview#requirements-for-chain-key-tokens) as for any other type of chain-key token apply.

:::

## How it works

> The ckERC20 functionality is primarily provided by two canisters, the **ckETH minter** and the **ledger suite orchestrator (LSO)**, and a helper smart contract on Ethereum:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ckERC20 functionality is provided by two canisters, the **ckETH minter** and the **ledger suite orchestrator (LSO)**, and a helper smart contract on Ethereum:
```

3. The user calls the `withdraw_erc20` function on the ckETH minter, specifying the canister ID of the ledger for the given ckERC20 token, the amount to be withdrawn, and the Ethereum destination address. The ckETH minter then issues transactions to burn the fee in ckETH and the specified amount of the ckERC20 token. If both operations succeed, it sends an Ethereum transaction that transfers the specified amount from the helper smart contract to the destination address that the user provided.

More details on both flows are provided on the [ckERC20 GitHub page](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/blob/master/rs/ethereum/cketh/docs/ckerc20.adoc), whereas a detailed description of the ledger suite orchestrator can be found in its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/tree/master/rs/ethereum/ledger-suite-orchestrator).

The ledger and index canisters in any ckERC20 ledger suite are regular ICRC-1 compliant canisters. A guide on how to interact with these canisters can be found in the [using the ICRC-1 ledger](/docs/developer-docs/defi/icrc-1/using-icrc1-ledger.mdx) section.

## ckERC20 use-cases

> ckERC20 tokens can be used in the same way as other chain-key tokens. Use cases include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ckERC20 tokens can be used in the same way as other chain-key tokens. Use-cases include:
```

Author: Isn't "use case" more commonly used? It looks like [Merriam-Webster agrees](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/use%20case).

Reviewer: To match the title 'ckERC20 use-cases' above, it should be 'use-cases'. The other Chain Key docs hyphenate it as well. 

As a separate note, I will look into standardizing it across the docs.
